Subject: Root Disease Model Update, FFE Snag Report, Command line Processing
Name: Lance R. David
Date: 06/02/2017
Variants affected: All variants

Description: 1. Resolved Canopy Cover Adjustment (CCAdj keyword) activity
              conflict with ThinCC activity when both occured on same year.
             2. Heights to top diameters for Merch Cuft and Merch BdFt (pulp
              and saw timber for the East) were not being reported corectly.
              These height values are only provided in the database output
              treelist, not the .trl file. Additionally, these values may or
              may not be available depending on the volume equations being
              used.This also involved the use of the wrong top diameter
              value on some calculations, but for most cases this mad no
              difference because the top diameter values for merch CuFt and
              Merch BdFt are the same.
             3. Executable verssion information that appears in the header of
              the main FVS output (.out) file was added to the output database
              Cases table, columns Version and RV. Both columns are defined as
              text. RV is the date that the executable was generated and has
              changed format from mm/dd/yy to yyyymmdd.
             4. Stand ID was added to the output database FVS_EconSummary table.

Impact on users: Users may experience changes in the merchantable CuFt reported,
             but limited test sets showed increase Merch CuFt for Region 2 and
             and Region 3 because BdFt top diameter of 6' was used instead of 
             Merch CuFt top diameter of 4".
             
             Heights to merchantable top diameters will be reported in the
             database output treelist if provided by the volume equation being
             used.
             
             Users will see two additional columns in the FVS output database,
             Cases table for FVS executable version information.


Files:

base/src/sstage.f - Removed processing of ThinCC activity, leaving only CCAdj.
         
dbs/src/dbscase.f - Added columns Revision and RV to the Cases table.
       dbsecsum.f - Added StandID to the FVS_EconSummary table (Rob Hilton)

volume/src/fvsvol.f - Major modification to address calculations of heights to
                      top diameters for primary (BdFt, Saw) and secondary (CuFt,
                      pulp), array HT2TD. Some volumes where calculated based on
                      the wrong top diameter variable. Some regional specific
                      processing had to be changed

