Subject: Fire and Fuels Extension Update (all variants)
Name:  Don Robinson and Stephanie Rebain
Date:  09/27/2006

Description:
This code update corrects errors in test versions of the FFE
Carbon reporting module. The new carbon reports as now ready for 
user testing and evaluation.

New FFE Carbon Accounting Keywords:

CARBREPT 	Request the stand carbon report.

Field 1:	The FVS cycle number or the calendar year when the output starts;
          default is 1.
Field 2:	Number of years to output; default is 200.
Field 3:	Interval to output; default is 1 (every year).

CARBCUT	Request the harvested products report.

Field 1:	The FVS cycle number or the calendar year when the output starts;
          default is 1.
Field 2:	Number of years to output; default is 200.
Field 3:	Interval to output; default is 1 (every year).

CARBCALC	Set carbon accounting parameters

Field 1:	Use FFE algorithm for aboveground biomass (field is 0 or blank),
          or use Jenkins and others (2003) algorithm for aboveground biomass
          (field is 1). Default is 0.
Field 2:	Use imperial units (tons carbon per acre) for output (field is 0 
          or blank), or use metric units (tonnes carbon per hectare) (field
          is 1). Default is 0.
Field 3:	Annual decay rate (proportion per year) for belowground-dead carbon
          pool (dead roots). Default is blank, which signals that this carbon
          pool is not simulated. Valid range is >0.0 – 1.0.
Field 4:	DBH breakpoint (inches) for softwood species. Stem biomass from trees
          smaller than this size assigned to a pulpwood class for calculations
          that produce the harvested products report; those equal or larger are
          assigned to a sawlog class. Default is 9 inches DBH.
Field 5:	DBH breakpoint (inches) for hardwood species. Stem biomass from trees
          smaller than this size assigned to a pulpwood class for calculations
          that produce the harvested products report; those equal or larger are
          assigned to a sawlog class. Default is 11 inches DBH.

Also, users can send the stand carbon report and the carbon harvested products report
directly to an output database by using the following Database Extension keyword:

CARBRPTS	Signals the creation of the FVS_Carbon and FVS_Hrv_Carbon database tables,
          which store the same data as that of the FFE Carbon and Harvested Products
          reports, respectively. This DBS extension keyword must be used in conjunction
          with the FFE CarbRept and CarbCut keywords.

Field 1: 	Code a value of 2 for the output to be sent to the database only and a value
          of 1 for both the database and the output file (default is 1).

Additional information on the new carbon reports can be found in the FFE addendum
document.

Impact on Users:
FFE users who want to view the new carbon reports should download the latest FVS
executables and the latest version of Suppose.

Modified Files:
common/metric.f77 - changed ton/Tonne conversion to use short US tons
dbs/src/dbsfmhrpt.f - changed column labels
dbs/src/dbsprs.f - split complex IF test so that evaluation sequence cannot 
                   result in a crash (compiler sensitivity)
fire/base/src/fmcbio.f - provide biomass for trees <1" DBH and make merch
                         biomass contingent on the minimum merch DBH used by FVS
fire/base/src/fmchrvout.f - changed column labels and definition of last column value
fire/base/src/fmdout.f - correct OPCODE/MYACT, improve MOD test to prevent math error
fire/base/src/fmsalv.f - correct volume calculation for MERCH/TOTAL of snags when using
                         Jenkins method
fire/base/src/fmscut.f - remove crowns correctly when using Jenkins method
