Subject: Small tree diameter growth

Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 01/17/12

Variants affected: All Variants

Description: (1) When the cycle length was not 10-years, diameter growth for trees less than 3.0" dbh
             was being incorrectly scaled to the cycle length. This problem has been fixed.
             (2) In the CA, CS, LS, NE, and SO variants, a blending of estimated small tree diameter 
             growth with estimated large tree diameter growth occurs over a diameter range to ensure 
             a smoother transition between the two submodels. Small tree diameter growth was not being
             scaled to the same time basis as the large tree diameter growth before this weighting
             occurred. This problem has been fixed.
             (3) In the IE and SO variants, scaling variables were not being used correctly 
             for some species. This problem has been corrected.
             (4) In the CS, LS, and NE variants, the small tree diameter growth multiplier and
             bark ratio adjustment were being applied twice. These problems have been fixed.

Impact on users: Users of these variants should obtain a new executable. Results for runs containing
                 trees less than 3.0" dbh will be different.

Files:
xx/src/regent.f   xx = AK, BM, CI, CR, CS, EC, EM, IE, KT, LS, NC, NE, NI, PN, SN, SO, TT, UT, WC, WS
                  changed the date of revision; changed the diameter used in the calculation of
                  DDS from DG, and subsequent conversion from DDS to DG, to actual beginning-of-cycle
                  tree dbh;

                  xx = CI, EM, KT, NC, NI, TT
                  changed the date of revision;
                  changed the variable BARK to use actual beginning-of-cycle tree dbh and height

                  xx = CA, CS, LS, NE, SO
                  changed the date of revision;
                  moved the scaling of small tree diameter growth to a 10-yr basis before the
                  weighting with large tree diameter growth which is already on a 10-yr basis;
                  added some comment statements explaining the logic
                  
                  xx = CS, LS, NE, SO
                  changed the date of revision; restructured the small tree diameter growth scaling
                  logic so the small tree diameter growth multiplier was not being applied twice.
                  
                  xx = SO
                  changed the date of revision; added scaling of DG to a 10-year basis for
                  species NF, WH, PY, WA, RA, BM, CW, CH, WI, GC, MC, MB, and OH.
                  
                  xx = IE
                  changed the date of revision; inserted code to set and use the SCALE and SCALE2 
                  parameters correctly according to species; changes some of the IF-THEN-ENDIF code
                  structures to CASE statements.