Subject: SALVAGE keyword, Snags, Structural Statistics, and Crown Biomass
Name: Stephanie Rebain
Date: January 4, 2005
Variants affected: All

Description: A recent change regarding salvage treatments introduced a new error.
Salvage treatments could not be conditionally scheduled and this was fixed so that 
they could be conditionally scheduled.  Also, the salvage keyword was updated to work
like other FVS keywords with regard to the lower and upper diameter limits specified 
on the keyword.  With this update, snags eligible for cutting are snags greater than or
equal to the lower diameter limit and less than the upper diameter limit.  In previous
versions, snags greater than the lower diameter limit and less than or equal to the upper
diameter limit were eligible for cutting.

The Snags event monitor function was modified so that both pre and post salvage values may be 
reported.  If the 8th argument of the snags function = 0, the calculation will be for snags
at the beginning of the cycle.  If the 8th argument = 1, the calculation will be after salvage
and thinning treatments.  The default is 0 so that beginning of cycle values are reported.  The
updated Snags function will be available in the next version of Suppose.

An error in the calculation of structural stage was fixed.

An error in the calculation of lodgepole pine crown biomass was fixed. (Thanks to James Dickinson.)

Impact on users: 
Users will now be able to conditionally schedule salvage treatments.  The Snags event monitor
function now reports both before and after salvage snag values.  If the 8th argument is left blank,
before salvage values will be reported.  

The structural class statistics may change, as well as anything that
depends on structure class.  For instance, in some variants such as CR, UT, TT, SO, 
and EC, FFE uses structure class to determine the fuel model and fire behavior or to set
default fuel loadings, so FFE output may change as well.

FFE output in any simulations where lodgepole pine is present will change.

All FFE users should obtain new executables.  Anyone using the structural statistics output
should obtain a new executable.

Files:
base/src/cuts.f - added a call to fmsalv
base/src/evldx.f - make a change to the salvvol and snag functions
base/src/exfire.f - added an entry for fmsalv
fire/base/src/fmsdit.f - deleted the call to fmsalv
fire/base/src/fmsalv.f - changed the code so that snags greater than or equal to the lower
                         diameter limit and less than the upper diameter limit are eligible
                         for cutting.  In the old code, snags greater than the lower diameter 
                         limit and less than or equal to the upper diamter limit were eligible.
fire/fireDocument/ProgrammersGuide_Fire_2004.doc - updated the FFE documentation.
base/src/grincr.f - moved the call to sstage so that the correct before thinning sdi and sdimax
                    were used.
fire/base/src/fmcroww.f - fixed an error in the lodgepole pine equation.