Subject: WWPB Model code corrections.  
Name: Andrew J McMahan, ITX, Inc.  Ft. Collins, CO   (970) 295-5850
Date: Dec 8, 2005
Variants affected: All WWPBM extensions

Description:
Changes address problems (1) with how the WWPBM handles stands flagged as 
"nonstocked" via WWPBM keyword NONSTOCK; (2) with how the model 
behaves if and when WWPBM keyword DISPERSE invokes its (WWPBM's) cessation 
prior to the end of the FVS/PPE simulation ; and (3) with how the model 
initializes DB-writing variables in the WWPBM's setup (BMSETP) routine.  

Prior to these changes, (1) calculations regarding stocked landscape acres was 
incorrect if an FVS-projected stand was flagged as non-stocked; (2) some 
routines were incorrectly proceeding even when the WWPBM projections were 
supposed to cease; (3) WWPBM-DB-related variables were incorrectly being 
initalized. 

Routine specific changes:

BMDRV: Use IBMYR1 instead of BMSTND as the flag controlling whether or not to 
   proceed. 
BMINIT: created two new logical variables, initialized to false: LDBINIT and 
   LBMSETP.  (see also BMCOM.f77and BMPCOM.f77).
   The first is set to true after the WWPBM-DB-writing variables have been 
   initalized (which may not necessarily be in the first master cycle, because 
   the DB-writing request may not occur until some time after the PPE or 
   the WWPBM simulation begins.)  The second is set to true when certain other
   initializations happening in BMSETP have been accomplished.  (This was 
   created so that certain portions of BMSETP can be bypassed in subsequent PPE 
   cycles.)  
BMKILL: Use IBMYR1 instead of BMSTND as the flag controlling whether or not to 
   proceed. Added comments.  Added condition to bypass portions of routine if 
   stand is non-stocked.
BMPPIN: Added comments.  Set default conditions to be Field 1 =1 and Field 2 = 50,
   meaning: if field 1 is blank, start the WWPBM in master cycle 1; if field 2 is
   blank, run the model for 50 years. (This now agrees with keyword guide.)
BMOUT: corrected the use of stocked acres in derivations of landscape averages.
   (Replaced TACRES with newly-created variable STKACR--see BMSETP notes.)
BMSETP: Major overhaul.
   Added 2 new local variables.  Added comments.  Moved DB-related 
   initializations to an appropriate loop.  Removed the initialization of 
   BMSTND to zero (this is done in BMINIT, and was needlessly done 
   here).  Reconfigured the bypassing of the routine to use variable 
   IBMYR1 as the trigger instead of BMSTND.  Bypass certain stand initiali-
   zations in subsequent cycles if they're already done.  Corrected logic 
   that heretofore appended all NONSTOCK stands to end of stand list.  (This 
   had been incorrectly handled if a non-stocked stand (entered via WWPBM 
   keyword NONSTOCK) was already entered as a stand to project).  New logic 
   flags already-entered stands as nonstocked, and appends only "new" 
   NONSTOCKed "stands".
   Corrected the bookeeping of the total number of stands in the run, 
   the # of stocked stands in the run, and the number of non-stocked stands 
   in the run.  Enhanced debug output.  Created new variable (STKACR) to 
   correctly bookkeep the amount of stocked acres (to be used in landscape 
   average output). Slightly modified how certain sections of code are 
   bypassed when calls to SPLAAR and/or SPLAEX return an IRC of something 
   other than 0.
BMCOM.f77:  Added LBMSETP (a flag set to true when stand identifications have 
   been completed for the first time in BMSETP.)  Added STKACR (see BMSETP).
BMPCOM.f77: Added LDBINIT (a flag set to true when the WWPBM-DB-writing flags 
   have been initialized.) 