Subject: CCF Coefficient Correction, Crown Width Update in R1 and in 
         Western Variants for some species (DBH < 5 in), correction of
         Diameter Growth Eq. (CR) for Whitebark Pine, and Correction of
         Plants 2 Plants Codes in Minor Species in the CS and LS variants
Name: Robert Havis
Date: April 20, 2006
Variants affected: AK, BM, CA, CS, CI, CR, EC, EM, IE, KT, LS,
                   NC, NI, PN, SO, TT, UT, WC and WS

Description:
1) An error was corrected in the large tree diameter growth 
   equations for whitebark pine. Also, the breakpoint between
   the large and small tree models for whitebark pine was changed from 1.0
   inch to 3.0 inches, and the weighting of the large and small tree height
   growth estimates was changed from 0.5"-1.0" to 2.0"-5.0". These changes
   will affect whitebark pine large tree diameter growth, calibration of the
   large tree diameter growth model, small tree height growth, and small tree
   diameter growth (CR).
2) A coefficient (Element 11 (OT) in the RD2 array), sum of diameters
   term, was corrected in the Crown Competition Factor algorithm.
   (BM, EM, NC, SO and WC variants)
3) The crown width equations were improved for R1 and for some species
   having diameters less than 5 in. in the other western variants.
4) The plant code for nutall oak was changed from QUBU2 to QUNU (CS), and 
   diamond willow was changed from SABE2 to SAERF (LS) 


Impact on users: User's of the CR variant that have whitebark pine as a species
                 should obtain a new executable. Users of the BM, EM, NC, SO and
                 WC variants should obtain new executables. Users of western
                 variants (except R5) who are concerned with crown width
                 calculations should obtain new executables. Users of the CS
                 variant who use plants codes for nutall oakbark and users of
                 the LS variant who use plants codes for diamond willow should
                 obtain new executables.

Files:
base/src/revise.f
bm/src/ccfcal.f      - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
cs/src/blkdat.f      - plant code for nutall oak was changed from QUBU2 to QUNU
em/src/ccfcal.f      - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
ls/src/blkdat.f      - plant code for diamond willow was changed from SABE2 to SAERF
ls/src/spctrn.f      - changed Cs and LS plants codes
nc/src/ccfcal.f      - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
ni/src/cwcalc.f      - updated R1 and D<=5.in. (some species) crown width formulae 
so/src/ccfcal.f      - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
so33/src/ccfcal.f    - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
wc/src/ccfcal.f      - corrected coefficient (element 11 (OT) array RD2)
em/src    dgf.f      - corrected a debug write statement so it prints the correct variables
cr/src   gemdg.f     - corrected the whitebark pine large tree diameter growth equation
         blkdat.f    - changed the breakpoint diameter between the small and large tree models from 1.0" to 3.0" for whitebark pine
         regent.f    - changed the height growth weighting range from 0.5"-1.0" to 2.0"-5.0" for whitebark pine
