Subject: 1) Correction to crown width equations for some species in some variants
         2) Correction to large tree diameter growth for some species in TT and SO
         3) Elimination of unused aspen coefficients (SO)
         4) Code cleanup

Name: Gary Dixon
Date:

Variants affected: 1) EM, IE, PN, UT, WC
                   2) TT, SO
                   3) SO (33 species version)
                   4) UT, WC

Description: 1) Crown width equations used were changed as follows:
                EM  Black cottonwood changed from narrowleaf cottonwood eqn to black cottonwood eqn
                    Rocky Mtn juniper changed from western juniper eqn to Rocky Mtn juniper eqn
                IE  Rocky Mtn juniper changed from western juniper eqn to Rocky Mtn juniper eqn
                PN  Black cottonwood changed from narrowleaf cottonwood eqn to black cottonwood eqn
                UT  Western juniper changed from Rocky Mtn juniper eqn to western juniper eqn
                WC  Black cottonwood changed from narrowleaf cottonwood eqn to black cottonwood eqn
                
             2) A relative density adjustment was being applied twice in the large tree diameter 
                growth equation for whitebark pine, limber pine, and "other species" in the Tetons
                variant, and whitebark pine in the SO variant. This has been corrected.
                
             3) Unused quaking aspen coefficients were set to zero to avoid code confusion in 
                subroutine DGF for the 33 species version of the SO variant.
                
             4) Eliminated the definition of a variable not used in the UT variant; eliminated some
                tab characters in the code for the WC variant.


Impact on users: 1) Different crown width estimates for the species in the variants noted above;
                    users of the EM, IE, PN, UT, WC variants should obtain a new executable.
                 2) Slight increase in diameter, height, and volume for the species noted in
                    the TT and SO variants; Users of the TT and SO variants should obtain a new
                    executable.
                 3) No effect on users.
                 4) No effect on users.

Files:
ni/src     cwcalc.f  changed the date of revision; changed crown width equation numbers as shown above; 
                     corrected some of the comment lines.
                     
so33/src   dgf.f     changed the date of revision; took out unused aspen coefficients in arrays DGFOR, 
                     DGDS, DGCASP, DGSASP, DGSLOP, and DGSIC; took out array DGCCFC (the WB relative
                     density adjustment was already included via array DGCCFA.
                     
tt/src     dgf.f     changed the date of revision; took out the DGCCFA array; consolidated the code
                     necessary to properly set the DGCCF array from the DGCCFC array in entry DGCONS.
                     
ut/src     dgf.f     changed the date of revision; took out the definition of array DGCCFC, which is
                     not used in this variant.
                     
wc/src     dgf.f     changed the date of revision; replaced tab characters with spaces (lines 306-317)
