Subject: 1) BA maximum & Mature Stand Boundary limits 
         2) Event monitor reporting of BA and SDI maximums
         3) Setting of SDI maximums when a BA maximum is specified

Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 05/06/2010

Variants affected: All variants

Description:
     1) In the SN variant and the NC variant, stand density was going slightly above a specified 
        BA maximum. When the code that does the checks against the ba maximum and the mature stand
        boundary calculations was developed, it was done in a variant where the default cycle length
        was 10 years.  The code was then copied into the other variants.  The part where you add in
        the fint-based diameter growth needed to be adjusted from fint/10 to fint/5 since the default
        cycle length is 5 years in the SN and NC variants.

     2) In the SN variant, default SDI maximums are set by forest type and they can change 
        throughout a simulation as stand management or natural growth causes the forest type to
        change. The event monitor wasn't reporting the correct sdi or ba maximum values in all
        cases. The forest typing routine is called from several places. One of those is in MORTS 
        before anything else is done, so when a forest type change occurred in the previous cycle
        it was being picked up ok in the subsequent cycle in MORTS.  However, the forest typing algorithm 
        is also called from DISPLY which is at the end of the cycle.  If the forest type changed, then 
        the SDIMAX and BAMAX values also needed to be updated for the SN variant or else the event monitor 
        wouldn't see the new values at the beginning of the next cycle.  It would see the new forest type 
        since that changed, but the SDIMAX and BAMAX values weren't being changed until you got to MORTS.
        This only affects SN. 

     3) When a BA maximum was specified with a BAMAX keyword, the SDIMAX was being incorrectly computed 
        in subroutine SDICAL. This would affect all variants and was introduced within the past year when 
        some changes were made to accomodate climate change. The problem affected all variants.


Impact on users:  All users should obtain a new executable. There will be slight changes in model output
                  for stand that are at the BA maximum.

Files:
SN/src    morts.f
NC/src    morts.f
base/src  sdical.f  disply.f

