Subject: 1)CA fire model code
         2)Miscellaneous changes to expanded WS variant
         3)CA crown width
         
Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 05/09/11

Variants affected: 1) CA
                   2) New (43 species) WS

Description: 1) Comment lines and debug output labels in the code were corrected.
             2) a. Correction to comments in subroutine FMCFMD
                b. Correction to computation of variable DCYMLT for species with a 100-yr
                   base age (GB and MC) in subroutine FMCBA
                c. Adjustment to the default site index assignment for bristlecone pine (GB)
                   and curlleaf mountain-mahogany (MC)
                d. Adjustment to the default site index assignments from a Dunning site code 
                   for LO, CY, BL, BO, VO, IO, TO, GC, AS, CL, MA, DG, and BM.
                e. Corrected a problem with the latitude index when latitude is entered with
                   a decimal fraction. This affects a parameter in both the large tree diameter
                   growth and large tree height growth equations.
                f. Changed site equation for SP, DF, WF, GS, IC, JP, PP, WP, SF, MP, BD, RW, MH,
                   and OS from King to Dunning.
                g. Changed site equation for LO, CY, BL, BO, VO, IO, TO, GC, AS, CL, MA, DG, BM,
                   and OH from King to Powers.
                h. Changed surrogate species for singleleaf pinyon (PM) from Jeffrey pine to
                   knobcone pine.
                i. Additional crown width equations were inserted for BD, CL, RW, C, GP, LO, and VO.
             3) Additional crown width equations were added for Coulter pine, Digger/Gray pine,
                coast live oak, and California white/valley oak. Crown width estimates for these
                species are now consistent with R5 FIAS estimates.

Impact on users: Users of the CA and WS variants should obtain a new executable.

                 Specific impact of the changes noted above:
                 1) None
                 2) a. None
                    b. Corrects the decay rate modifier for GB and MC
                    c. Corrects a problem with the default site index assignment for GB and MC
                       when a site species and site index (other than Dunning) is specified
                       by the user.
                    d. Adjusts default site index assignments to R5 specifications.
                    e. Corrects a problem with the WS latitude parameter in large tree diameter 
                       and height growth. This was also a problem in the 11 species version of
                       the WS variant. Users of the WS variant should obtain a new executable
                       as a result of this change.
                    f-i. Changes requested by the Regional Office. Users of the WS variant should
                       obtain a new executable as a result of these changes.
                 3) Users of the CA variant should obtain a new executable.

Files:
fire/ca/src   fmcfmd.f  changed date of revision; changed the fourth and fifth elements of array
                        FTLABL from WW and WE, to WE and WW, respectively (i.e. they were reversed);
                        changed the comments at lines 80 and 98 in the same way. Now they match what 
                        is shown for row labels for arrays FMD_R5 and FMD_R6.
                        
fire/ws/src   fmcfmd.f  changed date of revision; changed the comment for row 7 of array CWHRFMD from
                        Jeffrey pine to giant sequoia; changed the comment for row 8 of array CWHRFMD
                        from giant sequoia to Jeffrey pine (i.e. they were reversed). Now they match
                        what is shown for row labels and variable assignments elsewhere in the routine.
                        
fire/ws/src   fmcba.f   changed date of revision; added code so if the site species is GB or MC,
                        then the 50-year site value for RF is used to get the correct decay rate modifiers
                        based on the Dunning 50-year breakpoints.
                        
ws/src        dgf.f     changed date of revision; added ITLAT variable, set it in DGCONS, and used it
                        in place of TLAT in the conditionals for cases where latitude is entered with
                        decimal point fractions.
                        
              dunn.f    changed date of revision; modified the species specific adjustment factors for 
                        assigning default site index values per Joe Sherlock's note 4/28/11.          

              htcalc.f  changed date of revision; changed SP, DF, WF, GS, IC, JP, PP, WP, PM, SF, MP,
                        BD, RW, MH, and OS to use a Dunning site curve instead of King; changed LO, CY,
                        BL, BO, VO, IO, TO, GC, AS, CL, MA, DG, BM, and OH to use a Powers site curve
                        instead of King.
                        
              htgf.f    changed date of revision; added ITLAT variable, set it in HTCONS, and used it
                        in place of TLAT in the conditionals for cases where latitude is entered with
                        decimal point fractions. Replaced TLAT with ITLAT in a debug write statement.
                        Moved section of code saving pointers to small bristlecone pine trees inside
                        the bristlecone pine select case logic.
                        
              r5crwd.f  changed date of revision; added equations for bigcone Douglas-fir, California
                        bay laurel, redwood, Coulter pine, Digger (Gray) pine, coast live oak, and 
                        California white (valley) oak. Modified the species mapping functions for
                        the CA and expanded WS variants to use these added equations.
                        
              sitset.f  changed date of revision; added code to set default GB and MC site index values
                        using the proportion of the red fir site index to its possible range. 
                        
              In the following ws/src routines, the date of revision was changed, the comment regarding
              surrogate species assignments was modified to show singleleaf pinyon using knobcone pine
              from the CA variant instead of Jeffrey pine from the WS variant, and the parameters
              associated with singleleaf pinyon were switched from using Jeffrey pine as the surrogate
              species to using knobcone pine as the surrogate species:
              blkdat.f  bfvol.f   bratio.f  ccfcal.f  cratet.f  crown.f   cubrds.f  dgbnd.f   dgdriv.f
              dgf.f     dubscr.f  dunn.f    essubh.f  findag.f  grinit.f  htcalc.f  htdbh.f   htgf.f
              logs.f    morts.f   r5crwd.f  regent.f  sichg.f   sitset.f  smhtgf.f  varmrt.f  varvol.f
              covr/src/cvcbms.f   covr/src/cvshap.f
                        
                        