Subject: 1) CI mortality coefficients
         2) BM,CI makefiles
         3) SO makefile

Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 11/14/11

Variants affected: 1) Central Idaho (CI)
                   2) Blue Mountains (BM), Central Idaho (CI)
                   3) Southern Oregon / Northeast California (SO)

Description: 
1) This variant uses mortality coefficients from the North Idaho variant
   which are dependent on National Forest and habitat type. When this variant
   was expanded from 11 to 19 species coefficents from the NI NezPerce NF
   were temporarily used for all National Forests in the CI variant. The
   Region has now decided to use the NI NezPerce coefficents for the CI
   NezPerce and Payette National Forests, and the NI Bitterroot coefficients
   for the CI Boise, Challis, Salmon, and Sawtooth National Forests.
   
2) The PRGPRM common block has been added to the makefile dependency list for
   subroutine BRATIO.   

2) The COEFFS common block has been removed from the makefile dependency list for
   subroutine BRATIO.   


Impact on users: 
1) Users of the CI variant should obtain a new executable. Projections for the
   Boise, Challis, Salmon, and Sawtooth National Forests will now be different
   because of the change in mortality coefficients.
2) This makefile change will have no impact on users.
3) This makefile change will have no impact on users.


Files:
ci/src   morts.f     changed: the date of revision and settings for the National Forest
                     mapping function in array MAPFOR.
                     
ci/obj   makefile    added the PRGPRM.F77 common block as a dependency for subroutine
                     BRATIO in the compile macro.
                     
bm/obj   makefile    added the PRGPRM.F77 common block as a dependency for subroutine
                     Bratio in the compile macro.
so/obj   makefile    removed the COEFFS.F77 common block as a dependency for subroutine
                     BRATIO in the compile macro.
                     
