Subject: General code cleanup:
           1) READCORH implemenation in eastern variants
           2) Implementation of READCORH logic and correction to a unit number 
              in a debug write statement (WS variant)
           3) Correction to mixed-mode setting, and deletion of unused variables
              (UT variant)
           4) Correction and addition of code comment lines

Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 02/17/2011

Variants affected: 1) CS, CS_NEW, LS, LS_NEW, NE, NE_NEW, SN
                   2) WS
                   3) UT
                   4) SO

Description: 1) To promote standardized efficient code across variants, the
                READCORH logic in eastern variants was changed. The change 
has absolutely no effect on projections; it was done to standardize code across
all variants.            

2) A debug write statement was being directed to the window running the program
   instead of the main output file. This has been corrected. The model was
   changed so that values entered via a READCORH keyword will affect large tree
   height growth.
   
3) A variable initialization was corrected from a real to an integer value;
   an unused variable, BOOST, was deleted from declaration and initialization
   
4) Comment lines were either added or modified.

Impact on users: Users of the WS variant should obtain a new executable if they
                 want to include large tree height growth multipliers in their
                 runs using the READCORH keyword. All other changes do not
                 affect projection in any way.

Files:

cs/src       htgf.f  changed date of revision; added setting of HTCON to entry 
cs_new/src           HTCONS; deleted delcaration and initialization of variable XHT2;
ls/src               replaced XHT2 with EXP(HTCON(ISPC)) as the height growth adjustment 
ls_new/src
ne/src
ne_new/src
sn/src

ut/src     morts.f   changed date of revision; changed the value of KNT from an integer
                     to a real at line 147; deleted variable BOOST from declaration
                     and initialization
                     
so/src     smhtgf.f  changed date of revision; added comment line 89; modified comment at
                     about line 221.

ws/src     htgf.f    changed date of revision; changed the unit number from 6 to
                     JOSTND in the debug write statement referencing format 9225;
                     added HCOR2 logic so values entered via the READCORH keyword
                     will affect projections.