Subject: Miscellaneous variant changes

Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 09/21/2011

Variants affected: 1) Inland Empire (IE)
                   2) All variants
                   3) Eastern Montana (EM)
                   4) Utah (UT)
                   5) Tetons (TT)

Description: 
1a) Code to calculate the number of aspen sprouts has been changed. The formula
    is based on research by Glen Crouch (RMRS), modified by the proportion of 
    aspen basal area cut.
1b) Height growth multipliers entered via the READCORH keyword were not being applied to large
    tree height growth estimates for limber pine, pinyon pine, Rocky Mtn juniper, Pacific yew,
    quaking aspen, cottonwood species, Rocky Mtn maple, paper birch, or other hardwoods. This has
    been corrected.
1c) An equality check affecting growth rates for small trees of limber pine and Pacific yew
    has been corrected from "greater than" to "less than or equal".
1d) Potential height growth equations for pinyon pine, Rocky Mountain juniper, cottonwood,
    and other hardwoods have been improved. Also a problem with small tree height
    growth calibration for these species was corrected.
1e) Small tree height growth estimates for quaking aspen, mountain maple, and paper birch were
    corrected. This problem only affected these species beginning in the second cycle.
1f)	Growth equations used for limber pine were fit using base age 50 site index. 
    Site index for this species in IE is entered as base age 100. An internal conversion
    to an equivalent base age 50 value was added. 
1g) Height growth estimates in the regeneration establishment model were being incorrectly scaled 
    to the cycle length for pinyon pine, Rocky Mountain juniper, quaking aspen, cottonwood,
    Rocky mountain maple, paper birch, and other hardwoods coming out of. This problem was fixed.
1h) Omitted dead trees from the calculation of MAI for site index adjustment of limber pine
    and Pacific yew. 

2) A variable, IBASP, was added to the VARCOM common block and initialized in GRINIT. This variable
   is currently needed for the Ontario, Canada variant but is not currently needed in U.S. variants.
   The variable was also added to PUTSTD and GETSTD routines needed for the PPE.

3) An equality check affecting species added from the TT variant during expansion of the
   EM variant has been corrected from "greater than" to "less than or equal". This affects
   growth rates on small trees for species added from the TT variant.

4a) Small tree height growth rates for aspen on tripled tree records was incorrect. This problem
    has been corrected.
4b) When using the DGSTDEV keyword with a value less than 1.0, the random component of
    dubbed crown ratios for trees less than 1.0" in dbh was not being turned off. This
    has been corrected.
4c) Debug write statement 9001 for tripled tree records had the labels reversed. This has
    been corrected.
4d) Omitted dead trees from the calculation of MAI for site index adjustment of whitebark pine,
    limber pine, lodgepole pine, and other softwoods. 
    
5a) In the TT variant, when the site species was limber pine, the mean annual increment
    parameter needed for some equation estimates was not being calculated. This was corrected.
5b) Omitted dead trees from the calculation of MAI for site index adjustment of whitebark pine,
    limber pine, lodgepole pine, and other softwoods. 

Impact on users: 
IE variant: Projections with limber pine, Pacific yew, pinyon pine, Rocky Mountain juniper,
            cottonwood, other hardwoods, quaking aspen, mountain maple, or paper birch 
            will be different. 
            Projections using the READCORH keyword for the species listed in bullet 1b) 
            will be different.
            Users of the IE variant should obtain a new executable.
            
EM variant: Projections involving species using equations from the TT variant will be
            different. Users of the EM variant should obtain a new executable.

UT variant: Projections involving aspen less than 4.0" dbh will be different.
            Projections using the DGSTDEV keyword to shut off randomization will be 
            different if they contain trees with dbh less than 1.0" with no measured
            crown ratios. 
            Users of the UT variant should obtain a new executable.
            
TT variant: Projections where the site species is limber pine will be different.
            Users of the TT variant should obtain a new executable.


Files:
ie/src  cratet.f    changed the date of revision; changed ITRN to IREC1 in the calculation of
                    mai for site index adjustment.
        esuckr.f    changed the date of revision; added new code to predict the number of aspen sprouts.

        htgf.f      changed the date of revision; implemented the HCOR2 factor for the species listed
                    in bullet 1b) above.
        
        regent.f    changed the date of revision; changed the first equality check at line 592
                    from EQ to GE, and the third equality check from GT to LE; changed the
                    first equality check at line 571 from EQ to GE for consistency; inserted
                    an updated potential height growth equation for pinyon pine, Rocky Mountain 
                    juniper, cottonwood, and other hardwoods; corrected the logic inside the
                    DO 15 loop for aspen, mountain maple, and paper birch. Two debug write
                    statements were added.
                    
em/src  regent.f    changed the date of revision; changed the first equality check at line 603
                    from EQ to GE, and the third equality check from GT to LE; changed the
                    first equality check at line 582 from EQ to GE for consistency.
                    
tt/src  cratet.f    changed the date of revision; changed ITRN to IREC1 in the calculation of
                    mai for site index adjustment.
        maical.f    changed the date of revision; changed the species index for limber pine
                    from 113 to 101.                    
                    
ut/src  cratet.f    changed the date of revision; changed ITRN to IREC1 in the calculation of
                    mai for site index adjustment.
        dubscr.f    changed the date of revision; inserted logic to skip the random component
                    if called for by the user.
        htgf.f      changed the date of revision; modified the 9001 write statement.       
        regent.f    changed the date of revision; changed the tripling logic for aspen. 
        
                    
common  VARCOM.F77  changed the date of revision; added the IBASP variable.

xx/src  grinit.f    where xx = ak, an, bm, ca, ci, cr, cs, ec, em, ie, kt, ls, nc, ne, ni, pn,
                               sn, so, tt, ut, wc, ws
                    changed the date of revision; added initialization of IBASP variable.
                    
                    also in these variants: ci, ie, kt, ni
                    added intialization of CEPMRT and SLPMRT
                    
ppbase  getstd.f    changed the date of revision; added the IBASP variable

        putstd.f    changed the date of revision; added the IBASP variable

