Subject: Introduction of the ThinQFA Keyword
Name: R. Havis
Date: March 5,2014
Variants affected: All

Description: Schedules an uneven-aged thinning from throughout a specified diameter
             range for any or all species to a specified basal area, trees per acre
             or stand density index target. The distribution of the thinning throughout
             the specified diameter range is based on a user specified q-factor,
             where the q-factor value is the slope of a straight line function of the
             logarithms of numbers of trees versus arithmetic values of dbh. The user
             specifies a diameter class width that must not result in more than 30
             diameter classes within the specified diameter range. If the diameter
             diameter range divided by the class width results in an unequal
             number of diameter classes the smallest diameter class will be removed
             and a warning message will be written to the main output file. Only trees
             of the user-specified species and user-defined diameter range are considered 
             for removal. The residual basal area, trees per acre or stand density index
             is specified for the species and dbh range, and does not represent the the
             total residual unless the dbh range includes all trees of all species
             in the stand.

field 1:    Year or cycle that thinning is scheduled. Default = 1
field 2:    Smallest dbh, in inches, to be considered for removal
            (greater than or equal). Default = 0.0
field 3:    Largest dbh in inches to be considered for removal
            (less than). Default = 24.0
field 4:    Species code for trees to be removed in this cut. Default = All
field 5:    Value for q-factor. Default = 1.4
field 6:    Diameter class width in inches. Default = 2.0
field 7:    Target for the segment of the dbh distribution of the species
            defined in fields 2, 3, and 4. The target units are specified in
            a supplemental record by entering 0 (basal area), 1 (trees per acre),
            or 2 (stand density index)

Supplemental Record:
            Use the first column of the supplemental record to specify the
            units for the residual target set in field 7.
            0 = Basal area per acre.
            1 = Trees per acre.
            2 = Stand density index. By default the stand density index
                is calculated by the Reineke method. To thin to a residual value
                calculated using the Zeide method, use the SDICALC keyword with
                field 3 set to 2.

Impact on users: Get a new executable to use the ThinQFA keyword.

Files:
