Subject: Correction of crown width values for non-Forest Service users in some western variants; correction in missing
         height or crown ratio dubbing logic in OC and OP variants
Name: Gary Dixon
Date: 07/21/15
Variants affected: CA, OC, OP, NC, PN, WC

Description: 1) When calculating crown widths for some non-Forest Service users in these 6 variants, an error was found in either 
the selection of which equations to use or one of the parameter settings for certain species. This has been corrected.
2) In the new OC and OP variants, the number of tree records with missing heights or crown ratios that get dubbed using Organon
equations were not being counted for reporting in the calibration statistics table. Only the tree records that get these values
dubbed using FVS equations were being counted. This has been corrected. 
3) In the new OC and OP variants, dubbing of missing heights and crown ratios were being done with the FVS equations for all trees. 
This has been corrected so the Organon equations get used for valid Organon trees.

Impact on users: 
1) changed crown widths for the following variants, locations, and species:
   CA/OC        BLM Roseburg, Medford-Lakeview, Coos Bay;   All species
   WC;          BLM Roseburg, Medford-Lakeview;             AF, RA, IC, LP, ES, SP, WP, PP, MH
   OP/PN;       Quinault IR;                                SF, LP, SS, RC
   OP/PN/WC;    BLM Salem;                                  SF, WF, GF, AF, NF, YC, LP, WP, RC, WH, MH
   PN/OP/WC;    BLM Eugene;                                 GF, WH, RC, LP, ES, SP, WP, PP, WH
   NC/OP/PN;    BLM Coos Bay;                               RA, IC, LP, PP, DF, RC, WH, MH
   NC;          Simpson Timber                              IC, PP, DF
   NC;          Hoopa Indian Reservation                    all species

Files:
ni/src
     cwcalc.f  changed date of revision; in testing for branching to subroutine R5CRWD: WS variant, took off the 
               condition (IFOR.LE.12) since all forests should use R5 crown widths (does not change output for any forest);
               NC variant, changed (IFOR.GE.9) to (IFOR.EQ.5) (HOOPA IR will now use R5CRWD); CA and OC variants deleted
               (IFOR.GE.8) (BLM will now use R6 crown widths); added some comments preceeding the R5CRWD branching section;
               added some comments preceeding the setting of BF; changed the conditions on setting of BF coefficients to
               include non-FS forest codes within R6: 712 uses 611, 710 & 711 use 610, PN/OP 800 uses 609, NC 800 uses 611,
               708 uses 606, 709 uses 618
  
oc/src
     cratet.f  changed date of revision; added logic for including the number of tree records with missing heights or crown
               ratios that get dubbed using Organon equations into the number being reported in the calibration statistics
               table. Corrected the logic so Organon equations are used for dubbing missing heights and crown ratios for
               valid Organon trees.
     sitset.f  changed date of revision; revised Organon logic for setting DF & PP site index to include the case where both
               are 0.0

op/src
     cratet.f  changed date of revision; added logic for including the number of tree records with missing heights or crown
               ratios that get dubbed using Organon equations into the number being reported in the calibration statistics
               table. Corrected the logic so Organon equations are used for dubbing missing heights and crown ratios for
               valid Organon trees.
     sitset.f  changed date of revision; revised Organon logic for setting DF & WH site index to include the case where both
               are 0.0
      morts.f  changed date of revision; revised to use new WC mortality logic (which is from ORGANON)
