Subject: Biomass Component Keyword and Output Table
Name: R. Havis
Date: December 14, 2016
Variants affected: ALL

Description:

BIOMASEQ: Set biomass component equation number for any of the 47 biomass component
          categories. The biomass component categories in the database table output
          correspond to the 47 equation spaces in the supplemental record. The output
          is written to the FVS-Biocmp and/or FVS_CutBiocmp database tables which must
          be opened using the BMCMPTRL and/or BMCMPCUT keywords. Blank equation numbers
          in the supplemetal record receive a zero value in the database output. The FFE
          extension must be running to use this keyword.

      Field 1:    Species group, single species, or all species (0/ALL) (Default).
                  Species group Alpha Code, or FVS Species Sequence No.

      Supplemental Record: There are  8 supplemental records containing a
                  total of 47 twelve character elements separated by a space and
                  each record ends with the standard line continuation character (&).

BMCMPTRL Signals that the FVS_Biocmp (tree list biocomponents) table is to be output.
         Six of the Jenkins biomass components are printed for each tree record. If the
         BIOMASEQ keyword is used, the user-specified biomass components are written
         after the Jenkins biomass components. There are no fields associated with
         the keyword, and there is no text file output option. The FFE extension must
         be running to use this keyword.

BMCMPCUT Signals that the FVS_CutBiocmp (cut tree list biocomponents) table is to be output.
         Six of the Jenkins biomass components are printed for each tree record. If the
         BIOMASEQ keyword is used, the user-specified biomass components are written
         after the Jenkins biomass components. There are no fields associated with
         the keyword, and there is no text file output option. The FFE extension must
         be running to use this keyword.

BMCMPCUT

Impact on users: Biomass component values are available for individual tree records
                 using Jenkins Equations by default and by user-specified equations
                 from the Biomass Equation Library. Database tables are created
                 for all trees and for cut trees.

Files:
