Subject: Compute variable name error and point number retention

Name: Lance David

Date: 01/25/2022

Variants affected: All

Description: User defined Compute variable name containing invalid characters
             warning was changed to an error (FVS39) which terminates run.
             This was done to avoid users waiting for a run and expected ouput
             that would not be generated.
             The point number retention change is only relevant to stands that
             only have one sample plot or if running plots as stands. The
             previous behavior was to ignore the input plot number if only 1
             plot and carry a 1 for it. Now, the input plot number will be
             retained and reported. One note for this is that with the text
             version of the output tree list has a column labeled as
             PNT NUM, but actually contained the point index. It now contains
             the actual point number which corresponds to the DB output tree
             list column ActPt (Actual Point). Additionally, the text tree
             list PNT NUM column will only accommodate 3 digits. If the input
             point number is more than 3 digits, *** will appear in the printed
             column.

Impact on users: Users will experience run termination if an invalid character
                 is found in their compute variable name. When they look at the
                 end of ther main output file, that variable name will be shown.
                 Users expecting to have the original input point (AKA plot) 
                 number in the ouput tree list when processing a single plot
                 will have that number tree list column for text is PNT NUM and
                 the column in DB tree list is ActPt.

Files:
base\algexp.f - Change of FVS39 warning to error with termination.
base\errgro.f

base\intree.f - at line 316 suppressed code that set point number to 1.

vbase\prtrls.f - modified text tree records to write actual point number 
                 (IPVEC array). Corrected the write statements for unformatted
                 writing of the tree record which is initiated by providing a
                 negative unit numnber (field 2) on the base TreeList keyword.
